okay the next segment is going to be
about automatically building sentiment
lexicons so there
are some manually build sentiment
lexical such as sent you were net and
the general inquire and liw c and the
multi-perspective question answering
subjectivity lexicon so those I used a
lot in researchers sentiment analysis
but it is also important to learn
sentiment lexicons automatically whether
this is in English or in a specific
domain or perhaps in a foreign language
now let's look at some of those general
inquire is a very large data set it
excludes annotations not just for
polarity but also for many different
effects and other information so for
example powerful versus weak active
versus passive pleasure versus pain and
so on so it's available at the website
at the University of Maryland and a
small section of it is specifically
about positive and negative words so it
includes words like a bow accolade
accuracy adept adequate as positive and
words such as addiction adversity a
doctoral affliction and aggressive as
negative so now let's look at some
automatic methods we start first with
dictionary based methods we and again
the goal is to identify additional
content words as either positive or
negative so the way those methods work
is by starting from a set of known seeds
for example happy as a positive word and
anger is a negative word and then we
expand each of those sets the positive
and the negative set using word that so
we add synonyms of happy to the positive
set synonyms of angry to the negative
set and we understanding for things like
hyper names and hyper names and many of
those techniques are based on a random
walk method so you take a new word for
example the word sleepy let's say and
you perform a random walk on wordnet
until you reach one of the null seed
words and then you look at the distance
between the current word and all the
known labelled words and based on this
distance you label with either way so in
addition to dictionary methods you also
have semi-supervised methods so the
first one of those was developed by
achieve a similar McKuen in an ACO
from 97 and this is also going to give
us an opportunity to look at another
Macklowe problem which incorporates some
of the ideas in this method so here's
how it works we have the following
Nakhla Pollan called mu list ik by the
way this point is about adjective
polarity and all the adjectives here are
not real English words again it's very
easy to figure out the polarity of
English words just by looking at them
but if you have unknown words then the
problem becomes much more instructional
so here's what you're given as input you
have a set of eleven sentences that
include adjectives such as ballistic
clove ears and blitt II and so on which
again are not new English words and each
of the sentences talks about some person
or people and those people are described
as some sequence of adjectives connected
with different conjunction such as and
and but and the idea here is can you
figure out which of those adjectives are
positive and which ones are negative now
the ideas are the following first of all
you have to realize that some
conjunctions relate words for the same
polarity for example and relates words
that are both positive or both negative
whereas but relates words from different
polarities so blitek but clovie means
that one is positive and one is negative
so it is possible to build a graph where
each of the nodes corresponds to an
adjective and then you have two types of
edges either positive edges which means
that the two notes belong to the same
cluster or negative edges which means
that the two words belong to different
clusters but even if you do this
correctly and there are no
inconsistencies you still have to figure
out which of the two clusters is
positive and which one's is negative and
luckily in this example here you have
one sentence sentence number 8 which in
addition to the other things that it
says says also that Diane was a pleasure
to watch so the idea here is that the
adjectives that appear in that sentence
are also positive so let's see if you
can solve this poem on your own so again
you're given
sentences with adjectives and then the
two questions that you asked are a1 and
a2 a1 is asking you whether those
sentences a b c makes sense and for send
us to make sense it has to have
adjectives that are connecting connected
together so for example here the
sentence would be considered correct
if bleachy and drastic have the same
polarity based on the training data and
false otherwise
and then in Part A 2 you have to
determine whether the adjectives listed
here are positive or negative so try to
do this on your own
so here's a graph that helps you figure
out the solution each number here
corresponds to one of the sentences so
on the left hand side in the top we have
sentence one that connects moralistic
and slotty with a positive edge which
means that they in the same cluster
number three connects Mullah stick and
on T with a dashed line which means that
they're in different clusters four
connects damn T and clovie as members of
the same cluster and so on
and then finally sentence number eight
connects traffi strangie and pleasure to
watch again in the same cluster the
numbers that appear on the dashed lines
across the graph like eleven three five
ten nine and seven indicate that the two
endpoints are in different clusters so
what you can do here is create a
decision boundary that goes through all
of their dashed lines and therefore
clustering the graph into one cluster of
five words and one cluster of eight
words and now the last thing that we
need to figure out is which is the
positive one which is the negative one
and as I said before pleasure to watch
grounds the two adjectives that it is
connected to and therefore makes the
right hand side cluster to be the
positive one and then by extension the
ones on the left are negative okay so
the next thing that we want to look at
this the so-called PMI method that was
introduced by Peter tourney for
identifying the polarity of words based
on the Corcoran's of those words with
known positive and negative words in the
large web-based corpus so PMI stands for
point wise mature information which is
something that we have looked at before
in this
so given a word we want to see how many
times it appears near unknown positive
words for example excellent and how many
times it appears near and no negative
words such as poor so the point was
mutual information between two words in
general let's say the word that we try
to classify in the word excellent it's
just the logarithm of the number of hits
of the search engine which has both
words divided by the individual counts
for one of the words and the other one
and there is not an interesting data set
that you can download from the Johns
Hopkins website that was created by Mark
dreads and his colleagues which contains
a large number of training data for
sentiment analysis so this concludes the
section on sentiment lexicons